# WG21 Israel Mirror Committee Meeting Summaries - 2019

WG21 Israel Mirror Committee meetings usually occore once a month, Invitations are sent to the mailing list.
For joining, please send us an email to:  nb@corecpp.org.il

- [December 18th, 2019](#december-18th-2019)
- [November 3rd, 2019](#november-3rd-2019)
- [October 6th, 2019](#october-6th-2019)




# December 18th, 2019

## Draft agenda:
A short conclusion of Wednesday meeting: How to propose C++ paper

## Meeting summary:
### Attendees:
- Michael Peeri
- Inbal Levi
- Ran Regev
- Dan Raviv
- Avi Lachmish
- Dvir Yitzchaki

### Minutes:
Sections in the paper:
1. Motivation and scope
2. Impact on the standard
3. Proposed wording
4. Revision history (beginning/end)
(*) Acknowledgments
(*) If this is an extension for an existing article, please add context by adding some sentences before and after.
The most common format is LaTeX, you can also use HTML (not recommended) and others.
Send it to one of the incubator groups / SG relevant to the paper.
Link for an indexed C++ working draft: https://eel.is/c++draft/

# November 3rd, 2019
## Draft agenda:

| | | |
|-|-|-|
P1673R1  |  A free function linear algebra interface based on the BLAS                     	|    Inbal L
P1385R3  |  A proposal to add linear algebra support to the C++ standard library	|    Inbal L
P1891R0  |  The Linear-Algebra Effort                                                                             	|  Inbal L
P1914R0  |  On the names of shift algorithms                                                                	|  Ran R        (Brifly)
P0635      |  adding c_array() function to std::array  (https://wg21.link/p0635)          	|  Dan R, Ran R
P1921R0  |  What's in a Name?                                                                                       	|     Ran R        (Brifly)

Link to linear Algebra presentation: https://drive.google.com/file/d/10HgSAKVeybMdV14ODwOyJFRnFqOCTXGa/view?usp=sharing

## Meeting summary:
### Attendees:
- Andrei Zissu (remotely)
- Adi shavit (remotely)
- Avi Lachmish
- Dvir Yitzchaki
- Itiel Sadeh
- Inbal Levi
- Michael Peeri
- Ran Regev
- Dan Raviv

### Minutes:
- Ran Regev & Dan raviv have invited all to add pull requests: https://github.com/regevran/c_array
- Inbal Levi has brougth to a discussion where should be the limit for the Linear Algebra library "mathematical optimizations"
- Regarding Linear Algebra proposal: Avi Lachmish have expressed the fear that the library can't satisfy all low level implementations. Dvir Yitzchaki have suggested that there might not be a need for entering the library to the standard.
- Ran Regev has brougth to a discussion the need for aliasing function names, and the option of function names by professional field / contact
- Andrei Zissu has brougth to a discussion the option of having function names reinitialized (like in python) for creating simpler Control Flow
- Logistics: (was chosen in a democratic vote)
-Tel Aviv was votad as a comfertable location. (TLV University as a default, for now)
- Meetings frequancy was set to once a month.

# October 6th, 2019
## Our kick off meeting! :)

## Draft agenda:
We started presenting the papers we reviewed. We went over (with no specific order):

| | | |
|-|-|-|
P0325R4  |  to_array from LFTS with updates      															|  Avi
P0592R2  |  To boldly suggest an overall plan for C++23   											|  Yehezkel
P0631R8  |  Math Constants  																							|  Dan
P0709R4  |  Zero-overhead deterministic exceptions: Throwing values   					|   Yehezkel
P1746R1  |  Feedback on P1386R2 std::audio     																|   Dan
P1830R0  |  std::dependent_false      																				|  Avi

## Meeting summary:
### Attendees:
- Avi Lachmish
- Dan Raviv
- Dvir Yitzchaki
- Inbal Levi
- Michael Peeri
- Yehezkel Bernat

### Minutes:
- Michael described the targets. We want to get people more familiar with reading papers, understanding the process etc.
Later we hope to encourage people to write their own papers and eventually for us to become a national body with representation in WG21 so we can submit comments etc.
- Inbal asked if there is a specific area the group is interested with, a specific SG. She mentioned SG14 (low latency) as one that she is very interested with its topics.
Seems like SG14 is interesting for many of us, but other people mentioned more things they are interested with, and the conclusion was that we don't have to limit ourselves to specific area, but maybe consider prioritizing some things over the others.
- Following Inbal's question, people asked what SGs are existing. Yehezkel gave a quick review over the diagram found in https://isocpp.org/std/the-committee

- We discussed which hours work better for more people. 
- The next time may be 19:00-21:30. Another idea was to have it back-to-back to meetups instead of separating them for different days. Probably before the meetup, but maybe itâ€™s too early for some peoples. Will be discussed again before scheduling the next one.
- Michael said he thought about doing it after each mailing is out (which means 6 times a year; it's about 2 months between pre-meeting mailing and post-meeting mailing; the time between meetings isn't the same each time).
- Dvir mentioned we may want to try to have in our reviews more than just a summarize of the paper, to find something we think should be improved or changed.
- Thanks Avi for hosting us, Michael for the initiative and the coordinating, Dan for excellent reviews and all the attendees for constructive discussions and participating with good spirit.

Bottom line: It was fun, we all learned new things